Manuscript Number: COMNET-D-25-04932  

FedSemGNN: A Scalable, Semantic-Aware Federated RL Framework for Efficient 6G Edge Orchestration

Dear Professor Li,

Thank you for submitting your manuscript to Computer Networks.

I have completed my evaluation of your manuscript. The reviewers recommend reconsideration of your manuscript following major revision. I invite you to resubmit your manuscript after addressing the comments below. Please resubmit your revised manuscript by Mar 01, 2026.

When revising your manuscript, please consider all issues mentioned in the reviewers' comments carefully: please outline every change made in response to their comments and provide suitable rebuttals for any comments not addressed. Please note that your revised submission may need to be re-reviewed. 

To submit your revised manuscript, please log in as an author at https://www.editorialmanager.com/comnet/, and navigate to the "Submissions Needing Revision" folder.  

Research Elements (optional)
This journal encourages you to share research objects - including your raw data, methods, protocols, software, hardware and more – which support your original research article in a Research Elements journal. Research Elements are open access, multidisciplinary, peer-reviewed journals which make the objects associated with your research more discoverable, trustworthy and promote replicability and reproducibility. As open access journals, there may be an Article Publishing Charge if your paper is accepted for publication. Find out more about the Research Elements journals at https://www.elsevier.com/authors/tools-and-resources/research-elements-journals?dgcid=ec_em_research_elements_email.


Computer Networks values your contribution and I look forward to receiving your revised manuscript.

Kind regards,  
Jithin Jagannath  
Area Editor  

Computer Networks

Editor and Reviewer comments:



Reviewer #1: 1. The abstract is too lengthy to grasp the key research points; it is recommended to further condense its content.
2. The semantic embedding similarity threshold (0.3) is set without justification. It fails to explain how this threshold adapts to semantic matching requirements of different 6G services (e.g., ultra-low latency, high-reliability scenarios) or verify the impact of threshold adjustments on performance.
3. The continuous learning mechanism (elastic weight consolidation) of the semantic encoder does not quantify the selection logic of the regularization parameter (0.4), nor does it compare the effect of different regularization strengths on suppressing catastrophic forgetting, lacking parameter sensitivity analysis.
4. Task priority differences are not considered, treating all service tasks equally. It ignores the scheduling priority distinction between emergency tasks (e.g., autonomous driving control signals) and ordinary tasks (e.g., log analysis) in 6G scenarios.
5. More related works on 6G Edge shall be discussed. Authors are suggested to review more new and relevant research to support their research contribution. Some refs could be useful, e.g., Anns: An intelligent advanced non-convex non-smooth scheme for irs-aided next generation mobile communication networks.
5. The coverage of baseline algorithms is incomplete. It does not compare with recent mainstream centralized RL algorithms (e.g., SAC, TD3) or MARL-driven scheduling algorithms, failing to fully highlight the advantages of the federated learning framework.
6. It does not explain the compatibility of the algorithm with existing 6G edge platforms, lacking engineering details such as interface design and deployment processes, making the landing difficulty unknown.


Reviewer #2: The paper presents a potentially interesting ML-based approach for efficient 6G edge computing orchestration.
Having read the manuscript, I am convinced that it contains some material that may deserve publication. However, I have a concern about the true novelty of the proposed approach. Indeed, the authors combine some known ML tools (GNN, hierarchical federated reinforcement learning, and semantic task embedding) to enhance the degree of "intelligence" of edge orchestration and processing. Results seem to validate the proposed approach. However, I doubt that the proposed ML approach is tailored to a specific scenario, because the parameters appear a priori fixed (16-dimensional semantic spaces, a fixed number of synchronization epochs, and a buffer size fixed at 20,000 elements). My question is about the true innovation, generalization, and scalability of the FedSemGNN edge orchestration approach. A clarification of this doubt is necessary for me. The revision must clarify whether the manuscript is one of the thousands of papers trying to arrange known ML tools for specific application scenarios or is something that can really contribute to the innovation of SDN-based 6G networking.
As a minor comment, I kindly suggest to the author to carefully recheck the paper text to clean typos, missing bibilographical references, missing references to paper sections, etc.